# 1.0.0.CR1 Doheny Beach

## New and Noteworthy

- Configuration via XML file, see the [Configuration via XML](https://cache2k.org/docs/stable/user-guide.html#configuration-via-xml) documentation section.
- Documentation emerges in the [User Guide](https://cache2k.org/docs/stable/user-guide.html).
- Thread pools configurable for loading and prefetching. `Cache2kBuilder#loaderExecutor`, `Cache2kBuilder#prefetchExecutor`
- Various API cleanups.
- Improved Java Doc at various places.
- Attention: This version still contains deprecated methods. Users of the deprecated APIs should migrate now to the
  new one. The deprecated methods will be removed in the next release.

## Potential breakages

Changes in semantics or API that may break existing applications are listed here. 
Modifications in the statistics output will not listed as breakage.

- `sharpExpiry(true)` only has effect on times returned by `ExpiryPolicy` 
- `eternal(false)` has an effect now and means "needs expiry, but expiry is undefined yet.".
   This can be used to ensure that an expiry time is set via the file based configuration.
- Setting conflicting parameters like `eternal(true)` and `expireAfterWrite(...)` leads to an exception
- Attempts to create a cache with the identical name of an active cache yields a `IllegalArgumentException`.
  (In the release before the cache name was disambiguated by adding a incrementing number)
- JMX properties: Consistent naming and cleanup  

## Fixes and Improvements

- cache2k version number is logged only once
- Creation of `CacheManager` is logged at debug level
- Check/restrict allowed characters in a cache manager name
- Rename internal artifacts
- `Cache.getEntry()`: improve entry debug output for a stored exception
- remove task queue for asynchronous loads/refreshs and handle rejections gracefully
- reduce default loader thread count to one per available CPU
- `toString()` contains cache manager name
- `toString()` add version number
- Cleanup and improve `CacheManager` methods
- Creation and destruction on `CacheManager` corrected


## Using this cache2k version

### For Java SE/EE environments

````
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.cache2k</groupId>
      <artifactId>cache2k-api</artifactId>
      <version>1.0.0.CR1</version>
      <scope>provided</scope>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.cache2k</groupId>
      <artifactId>cache2k-all</artifactId>
      <version>1.0.0.CR1</version>
      <scope>runtime</scope>
    </dependency>
````

### For Android

````
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.cache2k</groupId>
      <artifactId>cache2k-api</artifactId>
      <version>1.0.0.CR1</version>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.cache2k</groupId>
      <artifactId>cache2k-core</artifactId>
      <version>1.0.0.CR1</version>
      <scope>runtime</scope>
    </dependency>
````

### Using the JCache / JSR107 provider

````
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.cache2k</groupId>
      <artifactId>cache2k-jcache</artifactId>
      <version>1.0.0.CR1</version>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>javax.cache</groupId>
      <artifactId>cache-api</artifactId>
      <version>1.0.0</version>
    </dependency>
````
