# 1.1.3.Alpha

This version is a development preview and not recommended for production use. Please give feedback to help
stabilize and improve the next version.

## New and Noteworthy

- rename `cache2k-impl` to `cache2k-core`. I think that is more intuitive for containing the 
  actual "core" cache implementation in case there are more `cache2k-xy` jars in the classpath. 
  
## Possible breakages

- JMX support is not enabled by default any more. It can be enabled per cache or globally, see the [Statistics - cache2k Use Guide](https://cache2k.org/docs/latest/user-guide.html#statistics)
- Renaming of method on `MutableCacheEntry`: `setExpiry` to `setExpiryTime`
- improve generic type parameters in methods related to cache type configuration, affected methods:
  `Cache2kConfiguration.setKeyType`, `Cache2kConfiguration.setValueType`, `CacheType`
- `CacheEntry.getLastModifiedTime` is not supported any more. Permanently throws exceptions, see TODO  
- `Cache2kBuilder.disableLastModificationTime`: deprecated, has no effect any more. 
  Logic is reversed. The feature needs to be switched on when needed via `recordRefreshTime`. 
  
## Fixes and Improvements

- JCache speedup: Do not support online listener attachment via TODO if cache2k configuration is enabled
- removeIfEquals statistics: count miss and hit consistently
- Exception propagation of `CacheEntry.getValue` covered by exception propagator again
- JCache configuration: switch to cache2k semantics when cache2k configuration file is present 
  (before default or cache section needed to be present)
- JCache, toString(): print useful toString() output for a JCache cache, delegates to the underlying cache2k cache 
- `Cache2kBuilder.recordRefreshTime`: Record time of last update or modification of an entry and make it
  available via `MutableCacheEntry.getRefreshTime  
  
  
## Using this cache2k version

The binaries are available on maven central.

### For Java SE/EE and Android environments

For Maven users:

````
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.cache2k</groupId>
      <artifactId>cache2k-base-pom</artifactId>
      <version>1.1.3.Alpha</version>
      <type>pom</type>
    </dependency>
````

Recommended for Gradle users:

````
def cache2kVersion = '1.1.3.Alpha'

dependencies {
    implementation "org.cache2k:cache2k-api:${cache2kVersion}"
    runtimeOnly "org.cache2k:cache2k-core:${cache2kVersion}"
}
````

_Note to Android users:_ The included jar files contain code that might only be needed in server environments (e.g. JMX support).
It is possible to strip unnecessary code. Example ProGuard rules can be found at [Andriod - cache2k User Guide](https://cache2k.org/docs/latest/user-guide.html#android)

### Using the JCache / JSR107 provider

Maven users include the cache2k JCache provider this way:

````
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.cache2k</groupId>
      <artifactId>cache2k-jcache</artifactId>
      <version>1.1.3.Alpha</version>
      <scope>runtime</scope>
    </dependency>
````

For Gradle users:

````
dependencies {
    runtimeOnly "org.cache2k:cache2k-jcache:1.1.3.Alpha"
}
````

Implementation details, tuning tips and hints on configuration can be found at: [JCache - cache2k User Guide](https://cache2k.org/docs/latest/user-guide.html#jcache)