# cache2k version 0.24 release notes

## New and Noteworthy

  * Restructuring the API and improving the documentation. This is ongoing work. We will do some more releases in a 
    short interval while working towards a 1.0 version, which then freezes the API.
  * Change code base to Apache license  
  * JSR107 support, TCK complete but not production ready
  * Complete set of CAS-Operations
  * Entry processor similar to JSR107
  * Storage and persistence code and configuration is removed (it is not dead and will reappear in a post 1.0 release)
  * CacheWriter
  * Events

## Potential breakages

Changes in semantics or API that may break existing applications are listed here. In general, only very minor
changes are done with breaking existing semantics, which will most likely not affect existing applications.
Everything that will most likely break applications will be introduced as a new API and the old one will 
get deprecated. Modifications in the statistics output will not listed as breakage.

  * Semantics of `Cache.getAll()` changed. Instead of returning always a map size equal to the requested count of keys,
    only keys with a non-null mapping are returned in the map.
  * Added generic types to the methods `CacheBuilder.entryExpiryCalculator` and `CacheBuilder.exceptionExpiryCalculator`
  * Bulk API signatures changed from `Set<K>` to `Iterable<? extends K>`

## Bug fixes

If something is listed here it might affect an existing application and updating is recommended.

  * Enabled background refresh and entry expiry calculator: In case the calculator returned the current time or a past time, the 
    entry was not marked as expired.
  * Fix possible race condition in cache manager when adding and closing caches and requesting an iteration of the existing caches

## Fixes and Improvements

Fixes of corner cases that are most likely not affecting any existing applications and improvements are listed here.
  
  * separate thread pool for asynchronous loader calls, via loadAll and prefetch, see CacheBuilder.loaderThreads 
  * Restore thread interrupt status, if an interruption exception is suppressed inside the cache
  * Deprecated configuration parameters not in use
  * Added lots of documentation to the configuration classes
  * Performance improvement: put() on existing entry by 15%
  * Typing: "unsupported" exception if an array is used for key or value types
  * Typing: Actual type parameters of generic types can be stored in the cache config
  * Typing: Converted CacheConfig to a generic type, transporting the key/value types at compile time
  * The cache manager logs the used default cache implementation at startup
  * Performance improvement: read access and cache hit (approx. 5%) on 64 bit JVMs
  * Cache.iterator(): Proper exception on wrong usage of iterator pattern
  * Cache.iterator(): Fix semantics for direct call to next() without call to hasNext()
  * Handle exceptions within the expiry calculator more gracefully (still needs work, entry state is inconsistent if an exceptions happens here)
  * ExceptionPropagator for customising the propagation of cached exception
  * backgroundRefresh and sharpExpiry moved to CacheBuilder and documented
  * Switching on eternal will not cache exceptions forever
  * honor keepDataAfterExpired(false) correctly and remove expired entries from the cache

### Statistics

  * Cache.contains(), does no access recording if no storage is attached. Change because JSR107 specifies that a contains() does 
    not count the same ways as get(). However, cache2k has no dedicated counters for get(), but counts every access, which also is a
    hit for the eviction algorithm. This means, the contains() call does not the prevent the entry from being evicted, which may
    be undesired. Treating the contains as an access to an entry has pros and cons.
  * JMX statistics: initial getHitRate() value is 0.0
  * JMX statistics: initial getMillisPerFetch() value is 0.0

## API Changes and new methods

  * regrouped in subpackages, similar to JSR107: integration, configuration, event, processor, customization

  * deprecated: CacheManager.isDestroyed(), replaced by isClosed()
  * deprecated: CacheBuilder.maxSize, replaced by entryCapacity()
  * deprecated: CacheSource, CacheSourceWithMetaInfo, BulkCacheSource replaced by CacheLoader
  * deprecated: CacheBuilder.backgroundRefresh, replaced by refreshAhead
  
  * signature change: Replace `Set` by `Iterable`, in `prefetchAll()`, `getAll()`, `loadAll()`, `removeAll`  

  * new: CacheLoader, replaces CacheSource
  * new: AdvancedCacheLoader, replaces CacheSourceWithMetaInfo
  * new: Cache.peekAndReplace()
  * new: Cache.peekAndRemove()
  * new: Cache.peekAndPut()
  * new: Cache.remove(key, oldValue)
  * new: Cache.replace(key, oldValue, newValue)
  * new: Cache.replace(key, newValue)
  * new: Cache.peekAll()
  * new: Cache.isClosed()
  * new: CacheManager.isClosed()
  * new: Cache.getCacheManager()
  * new: Cache.removeAll()
  * new: Cache.invoke() and Cache.invokeAll()
  * new: Cache.putAll()
  * new: CacheLoaderException used for wrapping loader exceptions, replaces PropagatedCacheException

  * Stronger typing: Added generic types to the methods CacheBuilder.entryExpiryCalculator and CacheBuilder.exceptionExpiryCalculator

## Using this cache2k version

### For Java SE/EE environments

````
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.cache2k</groupId>
      <artifactId>cache2k-api</artifactId>
      <version>0.24</version>
      <scope>compile</scope>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.cache2k</groupId>
      <artifactId>cache2k-all</artifactId>
      <version>0.24</version>
      <scope>runtime</scope>
    </dependency>
````

## For Android

````
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.cache2k</groupId>
      <artifactId>cache2k-api</artifactId>
      <version>0.24</version>
    </dependency>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>org.cache2k</groupId>
      <artifactId>cache2k-core</artifactId>
      <version>0.24</version>
      <scope>runtime</scope>
    </dependency>
````