# cache2k version 0.26-BETA "Madeira Beach"

## New and Noteworthy

A lot of API movement, since we work towards 1.0. See `Potential breakages` and `API changes`.
The API is not stable yet.

  * Resilience policy to control details of caching and suppression of exceptions.
    More information in the [resilience documentation chapter](https://github.com/cache2k/cache2k/blob/master/doc/src/docs/asciidoc/resilience.adoc)  

## Potential breakages

Changes in semantics or API that may break existing applications are listed here. 
Modifications in the statistics output will not listed as breakage.

  * Classes/interfaces: AnyBuilder, BaseAnyBuilder and RootAnyBuilder removed
  * `ExceptionPropagator` interface changed
  * LoadCompletionListener.loadException now expects a `Throwable`

## Bug fixes

If something is listed here it might affect an existing application and updating is recommended.

  * EntryProcessor did not honor expiry times or policy

## Fixes and Improvements

Fixes of corner cases that are most likely not affecting any existing applications and improvements are listed here.

  * `ExceptionPropagator` gets structured context information about exception
  * Eviction: Don't generate ghost entries when no eviction is needed. Improves performance when cache is operated 
    below the maximum capacity.
  * Add missing expiry event, when entry is expired immediately after an update  
  * Remove build information output to standard error
  * Higher safety gap (27 seconds) for timer event, if sharp expiry is requested
  * `peekEntry()` and entry processor did leave a stale entry in some situations
  * `MutableCacheEntry.setException()` was a stub, behavior is now defined
  * Renaming of JMX properties
  * More defined behavior in some corner cases like combinations of: Immediate expiry, `sharpExpriy` and `refreshAhead`
  * Removed unused counters
  * removed prefetching 'hack' from `getAll()`
  * internal cleanups
  * `EntryProcessor`: `MutableEntry.setException()` defined
 
## API Changes and new methods

  * Classes/interfaces: AnyBuilder, BaseAnyBuilder and RootAnyBuilder removed; Originally intended for fluent 
    configuration sections in builders, we will do another approach.
  * `Cache.getTotalEntryCount()` is deprecated and will be removed in an upcoming release
  * Return values and parameters related to the cache size converted to long
  * Cleanup JMX info bean contents (unfinished)
